I.	By a “proposition” I mean the non-linguistic entity meant by a complete sentence. I do not mean the sentence itself. “La neige est blanche” and “snow is white” mean the same thing. This common meaning is what I will refer to as a “proposition”.
Kant held that some propositions are both synthetic and also a posteriori. (We will soon define these terms.)This contention is the heart of the system of thought set forth in the Critique of Pure Reason.
I will now argue that this contention of Kant’s is false and that his argument for it is spurious. But I will also argue that Kant’s false contention can readily be turned into a correct one and that his spurious argument can readily be turned into a cogent one. Nothing more than a few terminological changes are needed to accomplish this. Let me now outline the arguments I will give.
First, I will argue that the premises of Kant’s argument turn out to entail the opposite of the thesis that there are synthetic a priori truths. Those premises entail that there are virtually no a priori truths, let alone synthetic a priori truths. Kant turns out to be even more of an opponent of a priori truth than John Stuart Mill.
Second, I will argue that Kant’s reasoning involves a confusion concerning the two different epistemological roles that mental imagery can play. On the one hand, mental imagery can serve as a vehicle for conceptual analysis. On the other hand, mental images are spatiotemporal phenomena in their own right, and can thus be the object of empirical study. Kant fails to distinguish the two quite distinct roles that mental images can have; and his views concerning the synthetic a priori are a reflection of that.
But I will also argue that, despite the problems just discussed, the important parts of the Critique are a success. Kant’s astonishing claims about causality, personal identity, and rationality turn out to be correct and founded on cogent arguments. But if this is to be made apparent, Kant’s reasoning must be “de- psychologized”, i.e. his statements about psychology must be reinterpreted as statements about logic. For the most part, this can be done by making a few adjustments to Kant’s choice of words.

§ Let us begin with some points about terminology. The word “concept” has two meanings – one logical, one psychological. Consider the sentence “Little Timmy doesn’t have a concept of an irrational number.” In this sentence, the word “concept” refers to a certain kind of psychological entity. Now consider the sentence “for any x, if x falls under the concept triangle, then x falls under the concept closed figure.” In this sentence, the word “concept” obviously does not refer to a mental entity of any kind, but rather to some kind of non- psychological, presumably platonic, entity.
In this paper, I will typically use the word “concept” in its non-psychological sense; and when I describe a proposition as “conceptually necessary”, I mean that it holds entirely in virtue of facts about concepts in the non-psychological sense of the word. Consider the proposition triangles have three sides. It is clear that the truth of that proposition has nothing to do with psychology, since it would be true in a world devoid of sentient beings. Further, its truth is guaranteed by the structures of the concepts composing it – the concepts triangle, three, and so forth – and is thus not contingent on anything that could possibly fail to be the case. The proposition triangles have three sides is therefore “conceptually necessary”, as I will be using
 
this expression. Sometimes I will use the expression “conceptually true” as a synonym for “conceptually necessary.”2
As we will see, Kant recognizes a different category of necessary truth. In his view, some propositions are necessarily true in virtue of facts about our minds. When I wish to discuss that kind of necessity, I will use the term “representational necessity.”

II.	Now we must say just what is meant by the terms “synthetic” and “a priori” and, therefore, what is meant by the conjugate terms “analytic” and “a posteriori.”
If a proposition is known to be true in some way other than through empirical work, Kant describes it as “a priori.” Consider the proposition 1+1=2. To know that is it true, one doesn’t do empirical work; one doesn’t perform experiments or make observations. 1+1=2 is thus a priori.
For Kant, a priority is a property of our knowledge of propositions. Of course, Kant does describe propositions themselves as “a priori.” But when Kant does so, he is really making a statement about our knowledge of those propositions. For Kant, a proposition is a priori not in virtue of its intrinsic or strictly logical properties, but in virtue of facts about how one comes to know it. A consequence of this conception of a priority – one that Kant himself draws -- is that a given proposition could, in principle, be a priori for one creature and a posteriori for another. As we will see, it is an essential fact about Kant’s system that, in it, the concept of a priority is understood in psychological (or epistemological), and thus not in strictly logical, terms.
For Kant, a proposition is “a posteriori” if it is not a priori. Consider the proposition Smith weighs over 200 lbs. To know that is true, one must do empirical work. So it is not a priori, and is therefore a posteriori.
Now let us turn to the expressions “analytic” and “synthetic.” Here we must be careful. These days the term “analytic” is often used to describe sentences. A sentence is “analytic” exactly if its semantics guarantees its truth. So “triangles have three sides” is analytic because, given what it means, it must be true. But this is not how Kant was using that term.
